---
title: Adjunct Faculty - Depts. Mechanical Engineering & Kinesiology
location: California State University, Los Angeles
categories:
  - experiences
author: khrisgriffis
date: 2023-08-01 01:01:01 -07:00
enddate: # no end date
---

**Course Design and Instruction**
Experimental Methods (Mechanical Engineering): Redesigned and taught a course on probability, statistics, and measurement uncertainty, aligning lab components with modern experimental methods across engineering disciplines. Delivered 2-hour weekly lectures and supervised 4 lab sections, each 2.3 hours per week, teaching over 50 students per semester.
Neuroplasticity and Disease (Kinesiology): Developed and instructed a course on neuromuscular disorders and neuroplasticity, focusing on physiological mechanisms and their pathological implications. Conducted 3-hour weekly lectures, teaching over 75 students per semester.

**Interdisciplinary Research and Collaboration**
Led collaborative research initiatives in the field of Spinal Plasticity and Spinal Cord Injury. Fostered partnerships with academic institutions for joint research projects.

**Student Mentorship and Management**
Mentored and managed a graduate student assistant, supporting their development and coordinating their contributions to course activities. Provided guidance and support to over 125 students each semester, promoting academic and professional growth.

**Curriculum Development**
Contributed to enhancing departmental curricula, promoting interdisciplinary learning and ensuring alignment with industry standards.