---
author: none
date: 2018-11-01 01:01:01 -0700
title: >
  Evidence of axon connectivity across a spinal cord transection
  in rats treated with epidural stimulation and motor training
  combined with olfactory ensheathing cell transplantation.
excerpt:
type: 9article-journal
type-label: Journal Articles
categories:
  - publications
pubauthor:
  - family: Thornton
    given: Michael A
  - family: Mehta
    given: Manan D
  - family: Morad
    given: Tyler T
  - family: Ingraham
    given: Kaitlin L
  - family: Khankan
    given: Rana R
  - family: Griffis
    given: Khris G
  - family: Yeung
    given: Anthony K
  - family: Zhong
    given: Hui
  - family: Roy
    given: Roland R
  - family: Edgerton
    given: V Reggie
  - family: Phelps
    given: Patricia E
author-highlight: Griffis
pub-date: 2018
published-in: Experimental neurology
volume: 309
page: 119-133
exturl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2018.07.015'
tags:
  - spinal cord injury
  - immunohistochemsitry
  - olfactory glia
  - neural repair
---

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2018.07.015" target="_blank">Source</a>

### Abstract: 
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are unique glia that
support axon outgrowth in the olfactory system, and when used as
cellular therapy after spinal cord injury, improve recovery and axon
regeneration. Here we assessed the effects of combining OEC
transplantation with another promising therapy, epidural electrical
stimulation during a rehabilitative motor task. Sprague-Dawley rats
received a mid-thoracic transection and transplantation of OECs or
fibroblasts (FBs) followed by lumbar stimulation while climbing an
inclined grid. We injected pseudorabies virus (PRV) into hindlimb
muscles 7-months post-injury to assess connectivity across the
transection. Analyses showed that the number of serotonergic (5-HT)
axons that crossed the rostral scar border and the area of
neurofilament-positive axons in the injury site were both greater in
OEC- than FB-treated rats. We detected PRV-labeled cells rostral to
the transection and remarkable evidence of 5-HT and PRV axons
crossing the injury site in 1 OEC- and 1 FB-treated rat. The axons
that crossed suggested either axon regeneration (OEC) or small areas
of probable tissue sparing (FB). Most PRV-labeled thoracic neurons
were detected in laminae VII or X, and \~25% expressed Chx10, a
marker for V2a interneurons. These findings suggest potential
regeneration or sparing of circuits that connect thoracic
interneurons to lumbar somatic motor neurons. Despite evidence of
axonal connectivity, no behavioral changes were detected in this
small-scale study. Together these data suggest that when
supplemented with epidural stimulation and climbing, OEC
transplantation can increase axonal growth across the injury site
and may promote recovery of propriospinal circuitry.