---
author: none
date: 2018-04-01 01:01:01 -0700
title: >
  Calcium oscillations in human pulmonary artery smooth muscle
  cells\: Developing a hierarchical clustering method for analysis and
  the effects of IL-1b
excerpt:
type: 1inproceedings
type-label: Journal Articles
categories:
  - publications
pubauthor:
  - family: Kim
    given: Elizabeth H.
  - family: Griffis
    given: Khris G.
  - family: Sheppard
    given: Meredith
  - family: Alamro
    given: Suliman
  - family: Tabari
    given: Daniel
  - family: Garfinkel
    given: Alan
  - family: Jones
    given: Heather D.
author-highlight: Griffis
pub-date: 2018
published-in: The Journal of physiology
volume: 598
page: 3747-3763
exturl: 'https://doi.org/10.1096/fasebj.2018.32.1_supplement.628.1'
tags:
---

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1096/fasebj.2018.32.1_supplement.628.1" target="_blank">Source</a>

## Abstract

### Rationale

Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is
characterized by lung inflammation, edema, and severe hypoxemia. In
previous work, we showed that IL-1b is required for the development
of severe hypoxemia in a murine model of acute lung injury,
independent of measures of inflammation and edema. We hypothesized
that IL-1b is altering the regulation of pulmonary blood flow to
cause severe V/Q mismatching in acute lung injury. To explore
possible mechanisms for this, we studied the effects of IL-1b on
calcium flux in human pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (hPASMCs)
in response to the vasoconstrictor endothelin-1 (ET-1). 

### Methods

hPASMCs were grown on glass bottom dishes to confluence and some
dishes were treated with IL-1b (10ng/mL) for 3h. Cells were loaded
with 5mM Cal-520 and stimulated with ET-1 (10nM) during fluorescent
imaging on a Zeiss LSM confocal microscope. All cells from each
field were individually selected using Fiji image analysis software.
By visual inspection, we noticed that a marked number of cells
showed oscillations in calcium flux after ET-1. To quantify
oscillatory from non-oscillatory responses, we used a mixture of
information theoretic and machine learning algorithms and developed
a custom classifier tool. We applied this tool to our control and
IL-1b-treated data (Figure 1) and created a contingency table for
the effects of IL-1b on the induction of oscillatory responses. $\chi^2$
confidence intervals and statistical significance were computed by
bootstrap simulation with $10^5$ replicates using custom scripts in
R(v3.4.1). 

### Results 

In control dishes (n = 6), there were a total of
444 non-oscillators cells and 379 oscillator cells. In dishes
treated with IL-1b (n = 2), there were 50 non-oscillator cells and
211 oscillators total. A bootstrap simulation based $\chi^2$ test was
performed and a strong relationship was found between IL-1b
treatment and the presence of oscillatory responses, 
$\chi^2 = 96.7(71.2, 125.5; 95\% C.I.)$, $p<10^{-5}$. 

**Support or Funding Information** 

Nat'l Heart, Lung & Blood Inst. K08HL125806 

_This abstract is from the Experimental Biology 2018 Meeting. There is no full 
text article associated with this abstract published in The FASEB Journal._