---
author: none
date: 2022-05-25 01:01:01 -0700
title: Mechanisms of detection sensitivity and adaptation in the rod visual pathway
excerpt:
type: 2-dissertation-thesis
type-label: Ph.D. Dissertation
categories:
  - publications
pubauthor:
  - family: Griffis
    given: Christopher G
author-highlight: Griffis
pub-date: 2022
published-in: UCLA
volume: false
page:  "ProQuest ID: Griffis_ucla_0031D_20709"
exturl: 'https://escholarship.org/uc/item/4tt400wt'
tags:
  - visual neuroscience
  - electrophysiology
  - photon detection
  - adaptation
  - dynamical modeling
  - software design
---

<a href="https://escholarship.org/uc/item/4tt400wt" target="_blank">Source</a>

### Abstract:
Vision begins in the retina, where photoreceptors have the
task of discriminating incomingphotons from intrinsic cellular
noise. Vertebrates have evolved a duplex retina, in which rod and
cone photoreceptors respond over a broad range of light intensities
from single photons to bright light. Rods evolved from less
sensitive cone-like photoreceptors and are responsible for mediating
the lowest 8 orders of magnitude of light intensity. At the lowest
threshold of vision, rods detect single photons and transmit signals
to downstream neurons in a specialized circuit. In the rod visual
pathway, tens of rods converge onto a single rod bipolar cell, where
noise from the rods is filtered, and rod signals are processed for
further downstream transmission. It is unclear which evolutionary
changes imparted such sensitivity to rods, and how these advantages
allow for rods to discriminate single photons from intrinsic noise.
In downstream bipolar cells, the mechanism for setting the filtering
threshold is unknown. Further, it is unclear what implications of
the thresholding of rod bipolar cells have on vision in scotopic
light levels. In this thesis, I investigated the mechanisms that
work together to define the threshold of vision. To gain
understanding of the nature of vision at the absolute threshold, I
worked with three main goals in mind: 

- Goal 1: Determine the set of changes that make feasible 
the incredible sensitivity of rods.
- Goal 2: Assess contributions of transduction proteins to the
detection of single photons versus intrinsic noise. 
- Goal 3: Measure the ability of rod bipolar cells to shape and parse rod
signals over several orders of magnitude of ambient light levels. 

To achieve these goals, I collected single-cell electrophysiological
from mouse rods and rod bipolar cells. I analyzed the data with
statistical models to determine parameters that described the
mechanisms of visual threshold and adaptation. I also used
statistical modeling to help validate results of mathematical
modeling from our collaborators in the Reingruber Lab (Paris,
France), which show that the important differences between rods and
cones are reflected in the cone as a reduced outer segment volume, a
decreased amplification through the transduction cascade, a faster
turnover rate of the cyclic guanosine monophosphate second
messenger, and an accelerated rate of decay of the phosphodiesterase
(PDE) enzyme (goal 1). Through analysis of intrinsic noise in rods,
I showed that PDE is the critical transduction element both setting
the noise level and limiting the detection threshold and variability
for single-photon absorptions (goal 2). Further, measurements in rod
bipolar cells revealed that rod bipolar cells have a
calcium-dependent feedback mechanism that allows rod bipolar cells
to respond robustly to single-photon absorptions in the minority of
the rods, while continuing to signal in brighter backgrounds that
also cause rod adaptation (goal 3). Taken together, my work has
helped delineate the fundamental mechanisms of signal detection and
processing at the threshold of vision and over the dynamic range of
rod vision.