---
author: none
date: 2021-06-01 01:01:01 -0700
title: >
  Rod bipolar cell contributions to changes in response 
  sensitivity during light adaptation
excerpt:
type: 1inproceedings
type-label: Conferences And Presentations
categories:
  - publications
pubauthor:
  - family: Griffis
    given: Christopher
  - family: Sampath
    given: Alapakkam P
author-highlight: Griffis
pub-date: 2021
published-in: Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science
volume: 62(8)
page: 2004
exturl: 'https://iovs.arvojournals.org/article.aspx?articleid=2775580'
tags:
  - vision science
  - rod bipolar cells
  - light adaptation
  - electrophysiology
  - statistical modeling
  - metabotropic glutamate signaling
date: 2023-03-28 20:19:35 -0700
---

<a href="https://iovs.arvojournals.org/article.aspx?articleid=2775580" target="_blank">Source</a>

## Abstract:

### Purpose

Mammalian rod bipolar cells desensitize with
increases in mean luminance. This process of light adaptation
reflects the sum of presynaptic gain changes in rods and
postsynaptic changes in the mGluR6 signaling cascade. Here we
dissect these contributions and study their underlying mechanism by
measuring the properties of light-evoked signals in both rods and
rod bipolar cells using patch electrodes.

### Methods

Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings were made from rod photoreceptors and rod
bipolar cells in dark-adapted mouse retinal slices. Light-evoked
responses were recorded for a series of flashes in darkness and
during the presentation of background light up to 400 Rh\*
(activated rhodopsins) rod<sup>-1</sup> sec<sup>-1</sup>. A Hill 
equation with three free parameters was fit to the rod bipolar cell 
response-intensity relationship - including the maximum photocurrent (Rmax), 
the half-maximal flash strength (_k_), and the extent of nonlinearity in
response amplitude as a function of flash strength (_n_).

### Results

Rod photoreceptors exhibited a 2-fold loss of sensitivity at light
intensities that cause ~50 Rh\* sec<sup>-1</sup>. Downstream rod bipolar
cells exhibit a more complicated sensitivity change. In dim
backgrounds, _n_ was reduced from a value of 1.6 in darkness to 1.0 by
~10 Rh\* rod<sup>-1</sup> sec<sup>-1</sup>. At brighter light 
intensities, _k_ began to shift, reflecting the decline in rod sensitivity. 
Rmax was also reduced by up to 60% at the brightest backgrounds tested.
Dialysis of 10mM BAPTA during recordings, or holding the membrane
potential at +50mV, reduced this modulation. Nonstationary noise
analysis of the falling phase of light-evoked responses elicited in
darkness and in background light reveal that the reduction in Rmax
does not arise from a reduced TRPM1 single-channel current. Instead,
it must result from a reduction in the coupling between the mGluR6
receptors and TRPM1 channels.

### Conclusions

Measurements in mouse rod bipolar cells reveal that the loss in sensitivity 
as a function of background light is a combination of the loss in sensitivity 
due to rod phototransduction, along with mechanisms intrinsic to the rod
bipolar cell dendrites. These collectively allow rod bipolar cells
to respond robustly to single photon absorptions in a minority of
the rods, while continuing the signal at brighter lights that also
cause rod adaptation.

_This is a 2021 ARVO Annual Meeting abstract._