---
author: none
date: 2024-01-01 01:01:01 -0700
options:
 - minihead
title: >
  Investigation of the functional impact of CHED- and FECD4-associated SLC4A11 mutations in human corneal endothelial cells
excerpt:
type: 3-article-journal
type-label: Journal Articles
categories:
  - publications
pubauthor:
  - family: Chung
    given: Doug
  - family: Chen
    given: Angela
  - family: Choo
    given: Charlene
  - family: Zhang
    given: Wenlin
  - family: Williams
    given: Dominic
  - family: Griffis
    given: Christopher
  - family: Bonezzi
    given: Paul
  - family: Jatavallabhula
    given: Kavya
  - family: Sampath
    given: Alapakkam
  - family: Aldave
    given: Anthony
author-highlight: Griffis
pub-date: 2024
published-in: PLOS ONE
volume: 19(1)
page: e0296928
exturl: https://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0296928
tags:
---

<a href="https://dx.plos.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0296928" target="_blank">Source</a>

## Abstract:

Mutations in the solute linked carrier family 4 member 11 (SLC4A11) gene are associated with congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy (CHED) and Fuchs corneal endothelial dystrophy type 4 (FECD4), both characterized by corneal endothelial cell (CEnC) dysfunction and/or cell loss leading to corneal edema and visual impairment. In this study, we characterize the impact of CHED-/FECD4-associated SLC4A11 mutations on CEnC function and SLC4A11 protein localization by generating and comparing human CEnC (hCEnC) lines expressing wild type SLC4A11 (\(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{WT}\)) or mutant SLC4A11 harboring CHED-/FECD4-associated SLC4A11 mutations (\(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{MU}\)). \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{WT}\) and \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{MU}\) hCEnC lines were generated to express either SLC4A11 variant 2 (\(V2_{WT}\) and \(V2_{MU}\)) or variant 3 (\(V3_{WT}\) and \(V3_{MU}\)), the two major variants expressed in ex vivo hCEnC. Functional assays were performed to assess cell barrier, proliferation, viability, migration, and \(NH_3\)-induced membrane conductance. We demonstrate \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}^{-/-}\) and \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{MU}\) hCEnC lines exhibited increased migration rates, altered proliferation and decreased cell viability compared to \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{WT}\) hCEnC. Additionally, \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}^{-/-}\) hCEnC demonstrated decreased cell-substrate adhesion and membrane capacitances compared to \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{WT}\) hCEnC. Induction with 10mM \(NH_4Cl\) led \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{WT}\) hCEnC to depolarize; conversely, \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}^{-/-}\) hCEnC hyperpolarized and the majority of \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{MU}\) hCEnC either hyperpolarized or had minimal membrane potential changes following \(NH_4Cl\) induction. Immunostaining of primary hCEnC and \(\mathrm{SLC4A11}_{WT}\) hCEnC lines for SLC4A11 demonstrated predominately plasma membrane staining with poor or partial colocalization with mitochondrial marker COX4 within a subset of punctate subcellular structures. Overall, our findings suggest CHED-associated SLC4A11 mutations likely lead to hCEnC dysfunction, and ultimately CHED, by interfering with cell migration, proliferation, viability, membrane conductance, barrier function, and/or cell surface localization of the SLC4A11 protein in hCEnC. Additionally, based on their similar subcellular localization and exhibiting similar cell functional profiles, protein isoforms encoded by SLC4A11 variant 2 and variant 3 likely have highly overlapping functional roles in hCEnC.

